
               George Washington Carver National Monument




                      Junior Ranger Activity Book
                            The Plant Doctor




                       A Junior Ranger’s Job ...


Welcome to George Washington Carver National Monument’s Junior Ranger
Program!

George Washington Carver National Monument is a special place that needs
people like you to take care of it. By becoming a Junior Ranger you can
help preserve national parks so that future generations may also enjoy
them!

Explore the park and have fun while you complete the steps to become a
Junior Ranger. When you are finished, take this booklet to the Visitor’s
Center and have a Park Ranger or other staff member sign your
certificate and issue your badge.

Thank you for helping to preserve national parks. Remember to have fun!

    [Illustration: Junior rangers]




                        A Park Ranger’s Job ...


Park Rangers help take care of America’s national parks. Park Rangers
work at national parks all across the United States. Here at George
Washington Carver National Monument, Park Rangers have many important
jobs, such as:

    [Illustration: Park Ranger]




—Teaching people about George Washington Carver

—Protecting the plants and animals

—Taking care of the trails, museum, and historic structures

—Giving park tours

—Leading nature walks

—Providing assistance to visitors

—Much more!


Are you ready to begin your journey through George Washington Carver
National Monument and discover many things about Dr. Carver? Go to the
next page!




                      Becoming a Junior Ranger ...


Earn your Junior Ranger badge and certificate by following these two
steps:

                                                          {Young George}

  1. Complete at least one of the activity pages with a sketch of young
  George.

                                                         {Carver in Lab}

  2. Complete at least five of the activity pages with a sketch of
  George Washington Carver in his laboratory.

Once you have completed both steps, take your activity book to the
visitor center for a Park Ranger to sign your certificate and to issue
your Junior Ranger badge!




                              Park Map ...


This park map will help you find your way while visiting George
Washington Carver National Monument.

    [Illustration: {map}]




Please leave prairie in its natural state. Do not pick wildflowers.




                          The Plant Doctor ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

George was often sick as a child, but this did not stop him from
exploring and learning about everything around him. He loved flowers and
plants, and even kept a secret garden in the woods not far from the
house. Young George’s nickname was the “Plant Doctor.” Draw a picture of
what you would put in a secret garden if you had one.

    [Illustration: Garden plants]







                           A Carver Video ...


                                                          {Young George}

Watch the Boyhood Carver video at the visitor center and answer the
questions below.

1. The Moses Carver farm was located near what Missouri town?

______________________________

2. What happened to George’s mother?

______________________________

3. Did George do the easier chores or the harder chores on the Carver
farm?

______________________________

4. What are two things that George taught himself to do while on the
Carver farm?

______________________________

______________________________

5. What did George use to teach himself how to read?

______________________________




                            Trailblazing ...


                                                          {Young George}

Hike the Carver trail where young George used his curiosity to find out
about the world around him. Write about or draw three things you see
while hiking the trail!

    [Illustration: The Carver trail leads to the 1881 Moses Carver
    House, Williams Pond, and Carver Family Cemetery.]




                         Born Into Slavery ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Fill in the Blanks: ask a Park Ranger, visit the museum, or watch a
Carver video for the answers!

George ______________________________ Carver was born into slavery
during the Civil War near ______________________________, Missouri on a
farm owned by Moses and ______________________________ Carver. Do you
know that a slave is a person who is owned by someone else? Slaves must
work for their owner and are not ______________________________ to do
what they want to do. Outlaws stole George and his mother,
______________________________, from the Carver farm when George was
very young. A man named John Bentley rescued George and returned him to
the Carver farm, but his mother was lost and never seen again. The
Carvers took George and his brother, ______________________________,
into their home and raised them. George learned many things while living
on the farm. He taught himself to ______________________________ by
watching Mrs. Carver and imitating her hand movements. He also taught
himself to ______________________________ using supplies that he had
made out of berries and other natural materials.

    [Illustration: Palette, needles and thread]




                         Carver Word Search ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Find these words in the puzzle below:

  [_]agriculture
  [_]artist
  [_]plant doctor
  [_]inventor
  [_]peanut
  [_]scientist
  [_]teacher

                p  z  v  z  b  f  t  m  z  i  r  t
                i  n  v  e  n  t  o  r  x  f  l  e
                l  e  r  u  t  l  u  c  i  r  g  a
                p  f  p  e  a  n  u  t  e  d  e  c
                p  l  a  n  t  d  o  c  t  o  r  h
                w  k  t  s  i  t  r  a  d  f  x  e
                s  c  i  e  n  t  i  s  t  e  n  r
                i  a  s  p  l  a  x  r  h  g  z  i
                f  k  g  m  a  j  l  e  n  k  x  h




                          Dr. Carver Says ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Read the Carver Quotes page. Write your favorite quote here ...

______________________________
______________________________
______________________________

Draw a picture about the quote.







                           Carver Quotes....


                                                          {G. W. Carver}

  “_Day after day I spent in the woods alone in order to collect my
  floral beauties, and put them in my little garden I had hidden in
  brush not far from the house...._”
                                                          _G. W. Carver_

  “_I never saw anybody do anything with his hands that I couldn’t do
  with mine._”
                                                          _G. W. Carver_

  “_Equipment is not in the laboratory, but in the head of the man
  running it._”
                                                          _G. W. Carver_

  “_From a child, I had an inordinate desire for knowledge, and
  especially music, painting, and the science of Algebra being all of my
  favorite studies._”
                                                          _G. W. Carver_




                       Museum Scavenger Hunt ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Explore the museum to find out about George’s life. The following list
contains items that are in the museum that belonged to George or his
family. Check them off as you find them. To complete this page find all
fourteen things!

  [_]Model of a sod house
  [_]Carver half-dollar coin
  [_]Mariah Watkin’s Bible
  [_]Original Carver bulletin
  [_]Plant samples Carver prepared
  [_]Theodore Roosevelt medal
  [_]Mariah Watkin’s wedding dress
  [_]Old school books
  [_]Moses Carver’s fiddle
  [_]Marbles found in archaeological dig
  [_]Bedroom furniture that George used
  [_]Old microscope
  [_]Painting made by George
  [_]Bill of sale for George’s mother

    [Illustration: Magnifying glass]




                             Equipment ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Find the bust of Dr. Carver and listen to the poem he is reading called
_Equipment_, by Edgar A. Guest.

The pieces of equipment listed in the poem symbolize our attitudes in
life. What do you think? Circle the best answer.

  “Two arms” means:
    I can work with all of my      OR     I should cross my arms and
             strength                                quit
               [_]                                   [_]
  “Two hands” means:
     I can do helpful things       OR     I cannot do helpful things
               [_]                                   [_]
  “Two legs” means:
    I can go wherever I choose     OR   I cannot accomplish very much
               [_]                                   [_]
  “Two eyes” means:
    I can learn by reading and     OR     I should watch a lot of TV
            observing
               [_]                                   [_]
  “A brain” means:
    I can keep learning for my     OR   I do not have to keep learning
            whole life
               [_]                                   [_]
  “Start for the top and say ...”
              I Can!               OR              I Can’t!
               [_]                                   [_]




                        Overcoming Obstacles ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

George Washington Carver overcame many obstacles that could have stopped
him from becoming a successful, happy man. He always believed that every
person had great value. Read the words below and draw a line matching
them to the right definitions.

 A. Racism             __Sicknesses like whooping cough or the croup.
 B. Segregation        __The loss of both parents.
 C. Prejudice          __The belief that people of one race are better
                         than people of other races.
 D. Illness            __A predetermined judgment about someone.
 E. Becoming Orphaned  __The separation of people because of differences.




                          Nature Discovery ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

Find the Leaf Classification drawer and the Animal Track Classification
drawer in the Discovery Center and draw and label three leaves and three
animal tracks that you find interesting.

                Leaves                            Animal Tracks







    [Illustration: Plant]




                       A Park Ranger Program ...


                                                          {Young George}

There are many Park Ranger Programs offered at the park. Check at the
visitor center to see when the next program will start.

Make sure you participate in the program and ask lots of questions! When
the program is over ask the Park Ranger to sign below.

  ______________________________
  Program Title

  ______________________________
  Date

  ______________________________
  Park Ranger

    [Illustration: Ranger]




                                Art ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

George loved to paint so much that he discovered new ways to make colors
from soil and different plants. Draw a picture of your favorite place at
the park.







    [Illustration: Palette]




                           Soil Discovery ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

George Washington Carver invented over 300 things from peanuts! Use the
charts in the Discovery Center to label the parts of the peanut plant.

    [Illustration: Peanut plant]

  ___ flower · ___ peg · ___ stem · ___ leaf · ___ roots · ___ peanut




                           Carver’s Quest ...


                                                         {Carver in Lab}

George Washington Carver was a lifetime learner. He moved to many
different locations in order to earn his education. In this map of the
United States locate the different states that he lived in.

    [Illustration: Map]

  Color the state where George was born   (Missouri)
  Put x’s in the state where George was not allowed to attend college
          because of his skin color   (Kansas)
  Put o’s in the state where George graduated college    (Iowa)
  Put stripes in the state where George taught school    (Alabama)

    [Illustration: Certificate of Achievement]




               George Washington Carver National Monument
                       Certificate of Achievement

            _This certificate of achievement certifies that_

                     ______________________________

   _has successfully completed all of the requirements of the George
Washington Carver Junior Ranger Program and as such is duly awarded the
                      position of Junior Ranger._

  ______________________________
  Park Ranger
  George Washington Carver National Monument
                                                     Official Park Stamp




                           Junior Ranger Code


As a Junior Ranger, I will do my best to:

  1. Explore other National Parks.
  2. Obey all safety rules.
  3. Leave plants, animals, and historical objects in the park as I
          found them.
  4. Learn more about African American history.
  5. Help keep our National Parks clean, safe, and beautiful for
          everyone.

                        This booklet belongs to:
                      ____________________________




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Changed some input instructions to better fit radiobutton or checkbox
  functionality.

—In the HTML version only, data entry is supported, but input is not
  preserved across browser refreshes; it can be recorded by printing the
  file or saving the viewer screen.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of George Washington Carver National
Monument Junior Ranger Activity B, by Anonymous

